# 2. Facade Pattern

GoF: Provide a unified interface to a set of interfaces in a subsystem. Facade defines a higher-level interface that makes the subsystem easier to use

Create a new interface to "wrap" an existing API, or set of API's
This can be to simplify the API, adapt it to your needs, or control functionality.
The Facade then delegates all the work to the existing API(s)

Scenario:
	multiple method invocations on various classes to achieve a desired functionality.
	Desired functionality is required in multiple places.
	This will lead to code maintenance issues and tight coupling.
	
Multiple method invocations are encapsulated into a single method of the facade class
	Single point of contact and looser coupling
	
Hiding the subsystem.
	You can provide the single interface to make it easy to use for clients
	and you can leave the subsyste open for more advanced users
	OR you can completely hide the subsystem from users.


#### pros ####
loose coupling
ease of use for clients

#### cons ####
An extra layer
	

#### Indicator for use ####
there are multiple method calls to different API's in a subsystem, which is a common occurance
clients don't care about the internals they just want a simple method call / API
When you want to layer your subsystems
	define an entry point to each subsystem
You could also say it can control access to a resource, I suppose that's why it's combined with the Singleton pattern


#### Related Patterns ####
Often only one Facade is required, so it could be a singleton
Facade and Mediator are similar, they abstract functionality of existing classes
	Mediator does more though, it abstracts both sides whereas Facade just abstracts the subystem.


#### My Thoughts ####
I think my Adaptor implementation is more a Facade, definitely!
