# c4

A model for software architecture

Context (Software System & Users), Containers, Components, Code

Old ideas are very heavy weight and have been thrown out in the Agile Revolution.
They haven't really been replaced though.

C4 is trying to bring back software architecture diagrams, but simpler diagrams

Create Maps of your code, at varying levels of detail

It is an abstraction-first approach to diagramming software architectures

## Abstractions

Common set of abstractions to create ubiquitous language that we can use to document the static structure of software systems

### People

The human users of your software system.
At the end of the day it always comes back to us people pushing buttons.
Even if some feature is M2M there is a human who puts that in motion.

### Software System

The highest level of abstraction. Detail isn't massively important as this is your zoomed out view showing a big picture of the system landscape
something that delivers value to its users (human or not) (is this a contradiction to the point in People???)

This includes the software system you are modeling and the other software systems on which you depend.

The focus should be on people and software systems.
Rather than technologies, protocols and other low-level details.

It's a diagram for non-technical people

### Container

something that hosts code or data. Zoom into the system boundary
needs to be running in order for the overall software system to work.
Shows the high level shape of the software architecture and how responsibilities are distributed.
Also shows the major technology choices and how the containers communicate with each other

something like:

* server-side web application
* client-side web application
* client-side desktop application
* Mobile app
* microservice
* database
* blob / content store
* file system
* shell script
* ...

It is a context or boundary inside which some:

* code is executed
* some data is stored

So, separate boxes for UI, server side code (multiple microservices) and databases.

each container is a separately deployable/runnable thing

### Component

Decompose each container further to identify the major structural building blocks and their interactions.
in this context it is a grouping of related functionality encapsulated behind a well defined interface.
In java: a set of implementation classes behind an interface

### Code

Zoom into each component to see how it is implemented in code.
UML diagrams of the actual code.
This is an optional level of detail, can be automatically generated from an IDE.
This tells me it is generated rather than defined and the code is then implemented to match it.
Recommended only for the most important and complex parts.

## Notation

Is simple, every type is similar

{name}
{Type}
{description}

in Containers, Components and Relationships the type can include the technology involved.