# ifa-029

https://portal.etsi.org/webapp/WorkProgram/Report_WorkItem.asp?WKI_ID=50985

K8s & Helm are mentioned, quite a lot in later sections.
Although Apaches Mesos & Marathon are mentioned too

## Concepts

VNF Common Service, good idea in theory but the realization gets tricky with Helm.
Helm deploys everything in the chart, it has no idea of available common services.
Backing services (database, message bus) from the 12 factor app or monitoring service.
The VNFD describes what VNF Common Services are required, so it could be left out of the helm chart.
  The chart would probably still need values to connect to the common service
They talk about a Common VNF Services Manager to manage the common services
  they'll probably try and lump that under VNFM :-)


NF    Network Function
VNF   Virtual Network Function
MCIO  Managed Container Infrastructure Object

I would have thought they are the same but according to the document a VNF is made up of NFs which can be reused.

Openstack is the VIM in the VM world, in the container world Kubernetes is the VIM which is called the CISM
The CISM is Kubernetes.
CRM is the CRI (Runtime)
CSM is the CSI (Storage)
CNM is the CNI (Network)

## Acronyms

NRF   NF Repository Function
NEF   Network Exposure Function
CISM  Container Infrastructure Service Management (Kubernetes)
CRM   Container Runtime Management, Container Runtime Interface - Docker

## Model Mapping

More difficult to map NFV into container world.
The closest mapping is VNFC to Pod.

Deployment view: A VNFD can be mapped to one or more Helm Charts, hierarchial Helm Charts.
Runtime view: VNF to helm Release.
It recommends not to go too granular on the mapping, no lower than object package (helm - charts and releases)

## Where will the CISM sit in the new architecture

There are a number of proposals:
1. on it's own
2. in VIM
3. in VNFM
4. in VNF

Chapter 8 will tell the tale

## next steps and recommendations

* A new Managed Container Infrastructure Object Package (MCIOP) is specified
  * a managed container infrastructure object is any resource in K8S
  * The package is an aggregate of multiple MCIO
    * Helm in cloud native
  * The VNFD will be extended to be able to reference MCIOP
* create interfaces to the CISM
  * MCIOP mgmt (consumed by the VNFM)
  * Service resource mgmt (consumed by the NFVO)
* Specify a container image registry function
  *
* Specify a service descriptor catalogue Function
  * interface for VNF Common and Dedicated services
