# 1. Singleton Pattern

This pattern ensures there is only one instance of a class in the JVM and a global point of access to it

Private constructor, static field and "getInstance" method.

You can have an Eager or Lazy Singleton.
* Eager: instance is instantiated at class-load time
* Lazy: instance is instantiated at first call to getInstance


## Downsides
*this will make it hard to unit test these classes if I want to mock the session*

*Can lead to obscure issues in multi-threaded program*

To overcome threading issues, use lazy instantiation and synchronize the instantiation.

Another pattern which achieves the same/similar outcome is the MonoState pattern.

All fields of the object are static so no matter how many times it's instantiated it's state is the same.

*This removes the difficulty in unit testing as the mocked dependencies can be injected.*

*Same issue with multi-threading issues*

Another implementation of this pattern is using an ENUM with one constant, field and corresponding get/set methods


## Usages:
* Where you need a registry. UI Registry?
* threadpool. in current scenarios?
* Logging, single point of access to an applications log file.
* I/O, where there will be lots of connecting. Reduce the number of connections made to 1. For example, DB connection.

## Indicators for use 

* "Single point of access" required
** when mulitple access points can cause resource issues.
*** too many open files
*** max ssh connection


## My Thoughts 
Dependency injection frameworks can handle this now.

Guice in TAF: @Inject Class -> single instance in jvm

@Inject Provider<Class> Single instance per thread in jvm
	

