# 1. Lambda Expressions

Facilitate functional programming and simplifies development

Collections.sort(names, (s1, s2) -> s1.compareTo(s2));
	Sort the collection names by it's comparator

A lambda corresponds to a given type, specified by an interface with a single method (functional interface). [default methods can be added to a functional interface, not sure what purpose they would serve. Do something with the result]

## Declaring Lambdas

Syntax
(parameter(s)) -> {expression body}

Important characteristics

1. Optional type declaration. Compiler can infer the type from the value of the parameter
2. Optional parenthesis around single parameter, multiple parameters parenthesis is mandatory
3. Optional curly braces. No need for curly braces if body is single line
4. Optional return keyword.

## Using Lambdas

Assign Lambda to interface.
Looks like interface can have only one method, yup it's a Functional Interface

Used primarily to define inline implementation  of a functional interface
functional interface: an interface with a single method only.
Eliminate the need for anonymous classes

### Scope

Very similar to anonymous objects
You can access final variables, instance fields and static variables.

## local variables

But different to anonymous objects local variables don't have to be declared final
But they effectively are as if you try and change the variable afterwards the lambda expressions shows a compiler error
And we can't write to outer scope variables from within the lambda expression, when they are initialized before the lambda.
	If they aren't initialized we can initialize them in the lambda

## Fields and static variables

We have both read and write access to instance fields and static variables

## Default methods

Can't be accessed from within lambda's

## How are Lambdas implemented?

is it an anonymous inner class? Nope, there's no extra class file.

lambda body is compile into a private static method that appears in the main class

invoke dynamic is used!
	unusual form of the factory method
	returns an instance of some type that implements Runnable.
	The actual type is not specified and doesn't matter
	the actual type does not exist at compile time
	is created on demand at runtime.
	produced by 3 capabilties: call sites, method handles & bootstrapping

### call sites

A location in the bytecode where a method invocation instruction occurs is known as a call site.
The call site is modeled in the heap as a CallSite object, contains the method to invoke
	if it's the first time the method is called a new CallSite object is created.

### method handles

java's version of a type-safe function pointer.
MethodHandle object is similar to Method
invoke method allows more polymorphic signature, where as Method is linked to a specific type

### bootstrapping

bootstrap the call site, with a bootstrap method
each invokedynamic call has an associated bootstrap method, stored in a different are of the class file
	in the class files constant pool
bootstrap method is for a call site and points to an entry in the constant pool
	entry is of type MethodHandle
